Forecasting Code Using FFT
This repository contains a MATLAB script for forecasting time series data using Fast Fourier Transform (FFT). The script normalizes the data, analyzes its frequency components, and forecasts future values based on the trend.

Features
Data Normalization: Z-score normalization is applied to the input data to prepare it for trend analysis.
Trend Extraction: The script uses FFT to extract the trend component from the data.
Filtering: A cutoff frequency is applied to filter out high-frequency noise.
Forecasting: The trend is extended into the future for a specified forecast horizon.
Prerequisites
Before running this code, ensure you have the following:

MATLAB installed on your system.
Input data in a spreadsheet (.xlsx or .csv), containing the time series data in a specific column.
Usage
Prepare Your Data:

Organize your data into a table format (e.g., Excel, CSV).
Ensure that your data is in a specific column that you will reference in the script.
Edit the Script:

Replace Your_File_Path with the path to your file.
Set Sheet_Number to the corresponding sheet in your Excel file if applicable.
Set Column_of_Data to the index number of the column containing your time series data.

filename = 'Your_File_Path';
sheet = 'Sheet_Number';
data = readtable(filename, 'Sheet', sheet);
values = data{:, Column_of_Data};

Run the Script:
The script normalizes your data, computes the trend using FFT, applies a frequency filter, and generates a future forecast based on the extracted trend.
Output
The script generates two figures:

Normalized Trend Component:

A plot of the normalized time series data.
Trend Component and Forecast:

A plot showing the original trend, reconstructed trend, and future forecast.
Customization
Cutoff Frequency: You can change the cutoff frequency for filtering in the code:

cutoff_frequency = 100;

Forecast Horizon: Modify the forecast_horizon to control how many future points to predict:

forecast_horizon = 30000;

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
